Note i want to implement a sign up and sign in mechanism in my application 

Normal flow of signup 
    User sends their email and password and other fields
        Server validates (the fields should follow and expected format)
        hashes the password and stores the user info in the db

    How does signing up a user work in spring boot
        By default spring requires authenticate to all endpoint.
        Create a security filter chain to allow the signup endpoint

        Controller recieve a request body with the user info.
        the request body is validated to have the expected structure
        saved into the db entity.
        password is hashed and stored into db
        User entity implements a UserDetails interface. reason ?
        the reason comes when signin up user. 














Spring Security

    When you add spring security dependency to your application, by default these are the major things that happens 

    1. All endpoints requires authentication 
    2. Provides form based login and http basic to authenticate
    3. a default inmemory user with a generated password in the console.

    But what if you want to provide auth to many users by user. 
    
    First you have a sign up endpoint 
        this endpoints should 
            1. Not require authentication
            2. Require atleast username and password, hash password and store your info in your db

        how?
            - create a security filter to allow the sign up endpoint not require auth
            - create an entity to store user info like a user entity but also note that it is important to implement 
            userdetails 
            why 
                it make it easier for spring security to identity the class it should work with for authentication
                related stuff

            - recieve user credentials from the signup endpoint and make sure to hash the password with a password 
                encoder like bcrypt.

    Secondly authentication
        By default user can send their credentials in form based login or http basic 
        since building a backend that sends data also and not html i will start with 
        http basic 

        how it works if 
        client with at the user credentials eg their email and password in the request header

        we get the credentials (email and password)
            find the user in our db with that email 
            encode the credentials password and check if it a match 
            now we are satisfied that the user is a valid user. 


        authentication manager does that for us
            it looks for a service that implements the interface userDetailService
            calls the loadUserByUsername method with the username with returns a userDetail
            matches the passwords between what is sent and the userDetails 





    
https://medium.com/@minadev/authentication-and-authorization-with-spring-security-bf22e985f2cb

    



